---
layout: post
title: SVM in R
---

## What is SVM

In machine learning, classification is a major type of problems. Many methods have been developed to classify data points into different categories, such as logistic regression. However, logistic regression only performs well for log linear datasets. Many datasets are high dimensional and nonlinear. In this case, Support Vector Machine (SVM) can help. It is a nonlinear classifier, which generalizes a simple classifier named *maximal margin classifier*. For a nonlinear feature space, SVM creates nonlinear decision boundary to separate the nonlinear datasets, with the help of *kernel*.

## What is kernel

Kernel is a mathematical transformation for SVM to classify nonlinear datasets. Formally, it is a function to quantifies the similarity of two observations[^1]. Here, I won't go into technical details. Just remember, kernels are carefully designed mathematical tools to help you classify highly nonlinear data.

[This blog](https://eight2late.wordpress.com/2017/02/07/a-gentle-introduction-to-support-vector-machines-using-r/) explains kernel trick very nicely.

## Quick SVM in R

At first, I assume you have reasonable working knowledge with *R*. Many *R* packages support SVM. One of the most famous is *e1071*. So the first step is to load *e1071* and the dataset.

TODO: add a practical example of basic svm in R

## Tune SVM parameters


--------
[^1]: James, G., Witten, D., Hastie, T., & Tibshirani, R. (2013). An introduction to statistical learning-with applications in R. In G. Casella, S. Fienberg, & I. Olkin (Eds.), Springer Texts in Statistics (1 ed., pp. XIV, 426): Springer-Verlag New York.
